### 1. Introduction
Elasticsearch is a distributed search and analytics engine based on the Lucene library, widely used for full-text search, structured search, and analytics.

#### Basic Concepts
1. Index
Definition: An index is a collection of documents that have similar characteristics. It is analogous to a database in a relational database management system.
Operations: Indexes can be created, deleted, and modified.

2. Type
Definition: A type is a logical category/partition within an index that allows storing different types of documents in the same index. However, in Elasticsearch 6.x and later versions, an index can only have one type.
Note: Types have been removed in Elasticsearch 7.x and later versions.

3. Document
Definition: A document is the basic unit of information in Elasticsearch, represented in JSON format. It is analogous to a row in a relational database.
Operations: Documents can be added, deleted, updated, and queried.

4. Field
Definition: A field is an attribute of a document, similar to a column in a relational database.
Types: Fields can have different data types, such as string, integer, boolean, etc.

5. Mapping
Definition: Mapping defines the types of fields and their properties in an index, similar to the table schema in a relational database.
Operations: Mappings can be defined manually or automatically generated by Elasticsearch.

6. Query
Definition: A query is a request used to retrieve documents from Elasticsearch.
Types: Includes full-text queries, match queries, boolean queries, etc.

7. Aggregation
Definition: Aggregations are used to perform statistical and analytical operations on data, similar to GROUP BY and aggregate functions in SQL.
Types: Includes metric aggregations (e.g., average, sum) and bucket aggregations (e.g., range, date histogram).

8. Shard
Definition: A shard is a horizontal partition of an index, where each shard is an independent Lucene index.
Purpose: Shards allow horizontal scaling and parallel processing, improving performance and reliability.

9. Replica
Definition: A replica is a copy of a shard, used for high availability and fault tolerance.
Operations: The number of replicas can be adjusted dynamically.

10. Node
Definition: A node is a server in an Elasticsearch cluster that stores data and participates in the cluster's indexing and search operations.
Types: Includes master nodes, data nodes, coordinating nodes, etc.

11. Cluster
Definition: A cluster is a collection of nodes that collectively store the entire dataset and provide federated indexing and search capabilities.
Operations: Nodes can be added and removed dynamically.

12. Index Template
Definition: An index template defines the default settings and mappings for newly created indices.
Purpose: Simplifies the index creation process and ensures consistency.

13. Alias
Definition: An alias is a pointer to one or more indices, allowing index switching without modifying application code.
Operations: Aliases can be created, deleted, and updated.

14. Analyzer
Definition: An analyzer is used to convert text into tokens, including character filters, tokenizers, and token filters.
Purpose: Improves the accuracy and relevance of searches.

### 2. Quick Start

```bash

# Set environment variables
export ES_ENDPOINT=http://elasticsearch-kdp-data.kdp-e2e.io
export ES_INDEX=example-rest-curl-$(date +%s)

# Create an index
curl -X POST "${ES_ENDPOINT}/${ES_INDEX}/_doc?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "@timestamp": "2099-05-06T16:21:15.000Z",
  "event": {
    "original": "192.0.2.42 - - [06/May/2099:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /images/bg.jpg HTTP/1.0\" 200 24736"
  }
}
'
# Get the mapping of an index
curl -X GET "${ES_ENDPOINT}/${ES_INDEX}/_mapping?pretty"

# Add multiple documents to an index
curl -X PUT "${ES_ENDPOINT}/${ES_INDEX}/_bulk?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{ "create": { } }
{ "@timestamp": "2099-05-07T16:24:32.000Z", "event": { "original": "192.0.2.242 - - [07/May/2020:16:24:32 -0500] \"GET /images/hm_nbg.jpg HTTP/1.0\" 304 0" } }
{ "create": { } }
{ "@timestamp": "2099-05-08T16:25:42.000Z", "event": { "original": "192.0.2.255 - - [08/May/2099:16:25:42 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.0\" 200 3638" } }
'

# Search data in an index
curl -X GET "${ES_ENDPOINT}/${ES_INDEX}/_search?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "event.original": "favicon.ico"
    }
  }
}
'

#  Delete an index
curl -X DELETE "${ES_ENDPOINT}/${ES_INDEX}?pretty"

```

### 3. FAQ

1. What are the common node roles in Elasticsearch?

- **Master-eligible Node**: Nodes that are eligible to be elected as the master node. The master node is responsible for managing the cluster state, including creating and deleting indices, tracking nodes in the cluster, and allocating shards to nodes, among other tasks.
- **Data Node**: Responsible for storing data and performing data-related operations such as searches and aggregations. Data nodes handle the load related to data storage and querying.
- **Coordinating Node**: Responsible for receiving client requests, dispatching requests to the appropriate data nodes, and collecting results to return to the client. By default, every node is a coordinating node, but specific nodes can be designated as coordinating nodes through configuration.
- **Ingest Node**: Responsible for executing pre-processing pipelines, transforming and enriching documents. Ingest nodes perform pre-processing on documents before they are indexed.


> https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/8.14/troubleshooting.html

